README.md, before:

# Server Seer

Server seer is a small Go application designed to run ANY shell command to parse
a single value from the output. The output is then stored in an SQLite database.

## Vision

The vision of this application is to make a very simple way to log the system status
but it also could be used for more complex commands as checking Apache status,
number of entries in a database, etc. It could be anything a all, as long as it
is a valid shell command that produces a single number.


## Current status

The server seer client supports sending data but as of now, there is no official
SaaS to parse and visualize that data. The expected Beta launch is expected on June.
Of course, a custom solution, not dependant on the SaaS being built can be implemented
using the simple API of a single POST call.

~~Also, a shell UI is being worked on, based on [gizak/termui](https://github.com/gizak/termui).~~
Scrapped for now because of lacking functionality.

For viewing the data locally, [Server Seer Viewer](https://github.com/andriussev/server-seer-viewer)
should suffice the basic needs.

## Using

### Install

#### Using the built version

Check, if the built version exists in the `build` folder. Grab the correct one for
your architecture.

You will need the `configuration.json` and `commands.json` files in the same directory for the application
to start. The sqlite database should be created automatically.

#### Building it yourself

To use the application, you will need to build it. To build it you just need
to [install Go](https://golang.org/doc/install). Once you have Go, just run 
````go build cmd/main.go````, set up your configuration file and you're good to go.

Once you have one build, you can use the same file on all machines with the same
architecture.

### Logging

While the application is designed to handle multiple ways to log, currently it only logs
to screen, so feel free to stream it to a file yourself until file logging is
implemented.

## Configuration

### commands.json

This file contains all the possible commands that _can_ be used in the application.

````
[{
    "name": "disk_space",
    "command": "df | grep '<filesystem>' | tr -s ' '"
}, {
    "name": "disk_space_used_percentage",
    "command": "df | grep '<filesystem>' | tr -s ' ' | tr ' ' '\n' | tail -2 | head -1 | tr -d '%'"
}
````

The file contains a _name_, that can be used in the configuration, and a _command_ 
that is called when the command is used. The command can contain a placeholer,
that would be filled in during setup of the handlers.


### configuration.json

This file defines the whole functionality.

````
{
    "commandsFile": "commands.json",
    "databaseFile": "../storage.db",
    "handlers": [{
        "name": "Load 5min",
        "identifier": "load_5min",
        "command": "system_load",
        "frequency": 10,
        "placeholders": [{
            "name": "timeframe",
            "value": "2"
        }]
    }],
    "sendData": true,
    "senderSettings": {
        "url": "defined-url",
        "application_key": "abcdefg",
        "server_handler": "s1",
        "entriesPerCycle":10,
        "cycleFrequency":30
    },
    "cleanupFrequency": 120,
    "cleanupOldestEntry": 259200
}
````

* _commandsFile_ - define a custom commands file;
* _databaseFile_ - SQLite file location (can be non existant as long as the location is writable);
* _handlers_ - all the handlers that will be ran
    * _name_ - just a visual name for logging inside the application
    * _identifier_ - the identifier of this specific handler, will be send to the API
    * _command_ - command name from the commands file
    * _frequency_ - how often will this handler be called
    * _placeholders_ - all place holders that exist in the command
        * _name_ - name of the placeholders
        * _value_ - value to replace with
* _sendData_ - whether the sender should be used.
* _senderOptions_ - if sender is enabled, settings will be used for the API
    * _url_ - URL for the API
    * _application_key_ - the key for the application that is being monitored
    * _server_handler_ - the server that is being monitored, for the application
    * _entriesPerCycle_ - how many entries will be checked on each cycle 
    * _cycleFrequency_ - how often entries will be parsed, and attempted to be sent
* _cleanupFrequency_ - how often a cleanup is ran, seconds
* _cleanupOldestEntry_ - oldest entry to keep in the database during cleanup, seconds

## Known and tested commands

Read the Wiki page - https://github.com/andriussev/server-seer/wiki/Commands#known-and-tested-commands

## API

For sending the data the server seer client uses a single endpoint.

### POST SendEntries

````
{
    "ApplicationKey": "application key",
    "ServerHandler": "this server's identifier",
    "Entries": [
        {
            "id": 1,
            "handlerIdentifier": "command being run (ex. load_1min)",
            "output": "value measured",
            "timestamp": "unix of when it was measured"
        },
        ...
    ]
    
}
````

Commit message:

Updated info about downloading the built version

README.md, after:

# Server Seer

Server seer is a small Go application designed to run ANY shell command to parse
a single value from the output. The output is then stored in an SQLite database.

## Vision

The vision of this application is to make a very simple way to log the system status
but it also could be used for more complex commands as checking Apache status,
number of entries in a database, etc. It could be anything a all, as long as it
is a valid shell command that produces a single number.


## Current status

The server seer client supports sending data but as of now, there is no official
SaaS to parse and visualize that data. The expected Beta launch is expected on June.
Of course, a custom solution, not dependant on the SaaS being built can be implemented
using the simple API of a single POST call.

~~Also, a shell UI is being worked on, based on [gizak/termui](https://github.com/gizak/termui).~~
Scrapped for now because of lacking functionality.

For viewing the data locally, [Server Seer Viewer](https://github.com/andriussev/server-seer-viewer)
should suffice the basic needs.

## Using

### Install

#### Using the built version

Download the latest release file from here: https://github.com/andriussev/server-seer/releases
or one from the `build` folder. Be sure to download the one with your architecture.

You will need the `configuration.json` and `commands.json`, for which you can find examples
in the repository.

The sqlite database should be created automatically.

#### Building it yourself

To use the application, you will need to build it. To build it you just need
to [install Go](https://golang.org/doc/install). Once you have Go, just run 
````go build cmd/main.go````, set up your configuration file and you're good to go.

Once you have one build, you can use the same file on all machines with the same
architecture.

### Logging

While the application is designed to handle multiple ways to log, currently it only logs
to screen, so feel free to stream it to a file yourself until file logging is
implemented.

## Configuration

### commands.json

This file contains all the possible commands that _can_ be used in the application.

````
[{
    "name": "disk_space",
    "command": "df | grep '<filesystem>' | tr -s ' '"
}, {
    "name": "disk_space_used_percentage",
    "command": "df | grep '<filesystem>' | tr -s ' ' | tr ' ' '\n' | tail -2 | head -1 | tr -d '%'"
}
````

The file contains a _name_, that can be used in the configuration, and a _command_ 
that is called when the command is used. The command can contain a placeholer,
that would be filled in during setup of the handlers.


### configuration.json

This file defines the whole functionality.

````
{
    "commandsFile": "commands.json",
    "databaseFile": "../storage.db",
    "handlers": [{
        "name": "Load 5min",
        "identifier": "load_5min",
        "command": "system_load",
        "frequency": 10,
        "placeholders": [{
            "name": "timeframe",
            "value": "2"
        }]
    }],
    "sendData": true,
    "senderSettings": {
        "url": "defined-url",
        "application_key": "abcdefg",
        "server_handler": "s1",
        "entriesPerCycle":10,
        "cycleFrequency":30
    },
    "cleanupFrequency": 120,
    "cleanupOldestEntry": 259200
}
````

* _commandsFile_ - define a custom commands file;
* _databaseFile_ - SQLite file location (can be non existant as long as the location is writable);
* _handlers_ - all the handlers that will be ran
    * _name_ - just a visual name for logging inside the application
    * _identifier_ - the identifier of this specific handler, will be send to the API
    * _command_ - command name from the commands file
    * _frequency_ - how often will this handler be called
    * _placeholders_ - all place holders that exist in the command
        * _name_ - name of the placeholders
        * _value_ - value to replace with
* _sendData_ - whether the sender should be used.
* _senderOptions_ - if sender is enabled, settings will be used for the API
    * _url_ - URL for the API
    * _application_key_ - the key for the application that is being monitored
    * _server_handler_ - the server that is being monitored, for the application
    * _entriesPerCycle_ - how many entries will be checked on each cycle 
    * _cycleFrequency_ - how often entries will be parsed, and attempted to be sent
* _cleanupFrequency_ - how often a cleanup is ran, seconds
* _cleanupOldestEntry_ - oldest entry to keep in the database during cleanup, seconds

## Known and tested commands

Read the Wiki page - https://github.com/andriussev/server-seer/wiki/Commands#known-and-tested-commands

## API

For sending the data the server seer client uses a single endpoint.

### POST SendEntries

````
{
    "ApplicationKey": "application key",
    "ServerHandler": "this server's identifier",
    "Entries": [
        {
            "id": 1,
            "handlerIdentifier": "command being run (ex. load_1min)",
            "output": "value measured",
            "timestamp": "unix of when it was measured"
        },
        ...
    ]
    
}
````
